=for header
manpage:  SQUIDGUARD
section:  1
title:    SquidGuard documentation
version:  Version 1.5
datum:    2012-04-20

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

squidGuard - Filter and redirector plugin for Squid and Squid3

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<squidGuard> I<[-u]> I<[-C block>]> I<[-b]> I<[-t time]> I<[-c file]> I<[-d]> I<[-P]> I<[-v]> I<[-h]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<squidGuard> is flexible and ultra fast filter, redirector 
and access controller plugin for squid.  It lets you define multiple 
access rules with different restrictions for different user groups on 
a squid cache.  squidGuard uses squid's standard redirector interface. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-u>

Update .db files from .diff files.

=item B<-C> I<file>|all

Create new .db files from urls/domain files, which are specified in "file".

=item B<-b>

Switch on progress bar when updating the blacklists.

=item B<-t> I<time>

Specify startup time in the format: yyyy-mm-ddTHH:MM:SS

=item B<-c> I<file>

Load alternate config file.

=item B<-d>

Send all errors to stderr.

=item B<-P>

Do not go into emergency mode when an error with blacklists is encountered.

=item B<-v>

Show version number.

=item B<-h>

Show the short help.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENSE

Copyright (c) 1999 Tele Danmark InterNordia, Oslo, Norway

Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Shalla Secure Services, Gauting, Germany

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as
published by the Free Software Foundation.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License version 2 can be found in `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2'.

=head1 AUTHOR

B<squidguard> was written by Pål Baltzersen and Lars Erik Håland.

This manual page was written by Joachim Wiedorn <ad_debian at joonet.de>
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<update-squidguard>(1), B<squid>(8), B<sgclean>(1), B<hostbyname>(1)

=cut
