=for header
manpage:  UPDATE-SQUIDGUARD
section:  1
title:    SquidGuard documentation
version:  Version 1.5
datum:    2012-04-15

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

update-squidguard - Update script for SquidGuard.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<update-squidguard>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This script performs a database rebuild for any blacklists listed in
the default Squidguard config file `/etc/squid/squidGuard.conf'.
After rebuilding the databases it will reload Squid / Squid3 so that 
it will make use of the updated lists.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-v | --verbose>

Show some more information and switch on progress bar when updating database.

=item B<-c | --checkdb>

Check Berkeley DB version and rebuild full database only if Berkeley DB version
have changed. This option should be used after upgrade of squidguard to reduce
wasteful wait time.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2003 Ivan E. Moore II, 2010-2012 Joachim Wiedorn

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as
published by the Free Software Foundation.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public
License version 2 can be found in `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2'.

=head1 AUTHOR

B<update-squidguard> was written by Ivan E. Moore II and updated 
by Joachim Wiedorn.

This manual page was written by Joachim Wiedorn <ad_debian at joonet.de>
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<squidGuard>(1), B<squid>(1), B<sgclean>(1), B<hostbyname>(1)

=cut
